# opt-pilot Visualization

This simple python script helps visualize the results (Pareto front) generated
by the opt-pilot framework.

The visualization is pretty basic, no fancy 3D stuff and by using x and y axis
plus a box size of result points we can display 3 objectives (3 dimensions).

## Installation

To run the visualization tool the following Python libraries are required:

* python     >= 2.7
* numpy      >= 1.7.0
* scipy      >= 1.7.0
* matplotlib >= 1.2.0

### LINUX (Arch)

On Arch Linux the following command can be used to install all required
packages to run the visualizer:

    pacman -S python2 python2-numpy python2-matplotlib python2-scipy


### LINUX (Ubuntu)

On a recent Ubuntu Linux (>= 10.4) the following command can be used to
install all required packages to run the visualizer:

    apt-get install python python-numpy python-matplotlib python-scipy


### MAC OSX

On OSX the libraries can be installed using e.g. port:

    port install python27 py27-numpy py27-scipy py27-matplotlib


## Arguments

* objectives: specify 3 objectives you want to visualize (check header of
  result file for available objectives)
* path: specify the path of the result files
* filename-postfix (default: results.dat): specify a custom file postfix of
  result files
* outpath: path for storing resulting pngs
* video (un-tested): name of the video


## Using

    python2 visualize_pf.py --objectives=%OBJ1,%OBJ2,%OBJ3 \
                            --path=/path/to/data \
                            --outpath=/path/to/results \
                            [--generation=n]

The `--generation` argument only displays the `n`'th generation.

To visualize the old data files (not JSON) use the

    --filename-prefix=results.dat

argument. By default result files are assumed to be in the (new) JSON format.


## Finding Design Variables

There are two ways to find design variables for a given individual:

* click on the colored box (click again to hide)
* open the matching result file (see below)

After selecting a point the given ID can be used to find the corresponding
design variables. In order to do that open the result file of the
corresponding generation and find the ID on the left-most column. After the
objective values all design variables (in the order as hinted in the header)
are listed.


## Example

There is an example result file in the `data` directory. To display, use

    python2 visualize_pf.py --objectives=%obj1,%obj2,%obj3 \
                            --path=./data/ \
                            --generation=995

